{\rtf1\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}{\f1 Times New Roman;}{\f2 Arial;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0 ;\red0\green0\blue255 ;}{\*\defchp \f1}{\*\listoverridetable}{\stylesheet {\ql\f1 Normal;}{\*\cs1\f1 Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs2\sbasedon1\f1 Line Number;}{\*\cs3\ul\f1\cf1 Hyperlink;}{\*\ts4\tsrowd\f1\ql\trautofit1\tscellpaddfl3\tscellpaddl108\tscellpaddfr3\tscellpaddr108\tsvertalt\cltxlrtb Normal Table;}{\*\ts5\tsrowd\sbasedon4\f1\ql\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10\trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10\trautofit1\tscellpaddfl3\tscellpaddl108\tscellpaddfr3\tscellpaddr108\tsvertalt\cltxlrtb Table Simple 1;}}\nouicompat\splytwnine\htmautsp\sectd\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 1}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 in this session}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 , we}{\f2\cf0  study }{\f2\cf0 statistical inference for linear regression analysis, with focus on P values, confidence intervals, and assumptions which those computations are based on.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 2}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 In session}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 s}{\f2\cf0  two and three, we studied }{\f2\cf0 basic models of linear regression, with focus on roles and interpretations of partial regression coefficients, alpha and betas. In session four, we studied }{\f2\cf0 how those alpha and betas are estimated. Now in session 5, we study }{\f2\cf0 how reliable those estimates are, and how the reliability of those estimates are assessed.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 3}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 we }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 will }{\f2\cf0 study computations of P values and confidence intervals for linear regression analysis, mathematical assumptions on which those computations are based, and basic procedures of diagnostics of deviations from those assumptions.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 4}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 topics of }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 this session}{\f2\cf0  are organized as shown in the slide.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 5}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 in order to get some ideas about the effects of }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 sampling}{\f2\cf0  variations}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\f2\cf0  on}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  estimated}{\f2\cf0  values of regression }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 coefficient}{\f2\cf0 s, let's look at results of some computer simulation}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 s}{\f2\cf0 . In the simulation}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 s}{\f2\cf0 , it was assumed that relationships }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 of}{\f2\cf0  systolic blood pressure to gen}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 der}{\f2\cf0  and age}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\f2\cf0  can be expressed by this model. In this model equation, y Is systolic blood pressure, x1 is the binary variable for gender, and }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 x2}{\f2\cf0  is adult age. It was assumed that the value of alpha is 100, beta one is 4.0, and beta }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 2}{\f2\cf0  is 0.5. And epsilon, the residual, was assumed normally distributed}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\f2\cf0  with }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 the }{\f2\cf0 mean of zero and the standard deviation of 13.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 using this model and th}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 es}{\f2\cf0 e }{\f2\cf0 parameter values, }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 simulated }{\f2\cf0 values of Y, X1, and X2 were produced for 200 hypothetical persons. }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 Then a}{\f2\cf0  linear regression analysis was done}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\f2\cf0  using this simulated data, and }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 the following results were obtained. }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 T}{\f2\cf0 he estimated value of alpha was 100.516, }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 which }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 i}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 s }{\f2\cf0 very close to the tru}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 e}{\f2\cf0  value of 100}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 .}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 . }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 T}{\f2\cf0 he estimated value of beta1 was 7.182, }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 which is }{\f2\cf0 quite different from its true value of 4.0}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 . }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 . }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 Finally,}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  }{\f2\cf0 beta }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 2}{\f2\cf0  was 0.456, somewhat different but not very different from its true value of 0.5.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 6}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 This is a plot of Y against y hat for the 200 hypothetical persons. Certainly y and y-hat are noticeably }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 cor}{\f2\cf0 related, but }{\f2\cf0 the points are scattered around the redline indicating y = y hat}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 , and many points }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 do not appear}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  very close to the redline}{\f2\cf0 . R squared is about 0.4. This }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 spread of points in the plot}{\f2\cf0  gives us }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 an}{\f2\cf0  idea about }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 the extent of }{\f2\cf0 randomness in the }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 regression analysis results}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 . The extent of randomness in the simulated data wa}{\f2\cf0 s determined by the standard deviation of epsilon. }\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 7}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 After this simulation, two sets of 200 simulations were done, and let's call them simulation 1 and simulation 2. In simulation 1, 200 data sets were produced using the same parameter values}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  as those used in the simulation in the last few slides}{\f2\cf0 , and then}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 200 }{\f2\cf0 regression analysis w}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 as}{\f2\cf0  done}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  using}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  each of the 200 data sets}{\f2\cf0 . In simulation 2, the value of B1 was changed from 0.4 to 0.0, }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 but the other parameter values were kept unchanged, }{\f2\cf0 and }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 then }{\f2\cf0 another bunch of 200 data sets and regression results were produced. }\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 Note, the number 200 is used here for two completely different things. In each of the }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 two }{\f2\cf0 simulation exercise}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 s}{\f2\cf0 ,}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  a set of}{\f2\cf0  200 simulations were }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 done}{\f2\cf0 , and each of the }{\f2\cf0 simulations produced artificial data }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 on}{\f2\cf0  200 hypothetical persons.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 8}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 These two graphs show the distribution of 200 values of b1 in Simulation 1. The left panel shows 200 vertical bars, indicating the 200 values of b1, from the lowest to }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 the }{\f2\cf0 highest}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 .}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  T}{\f2\cf0 he right panel is a histogram summarizing the distribution. The value of beta 1 is 4.0, so in this hypothetical population, men have, on average, 4 point higher systolic blood pressure than women, controlling for age. But its estimate ranged from -1.4 to 9.2. }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 The highest value, }{\f2\cf0 9.2}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\f2\cf0  seems quite misleading, suggesting the }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 average }{\f2\cf0 gender difference in systolic blood pressure is much greater than the true average difference of 4.0.}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  .}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 And the lowest value of }{\f2\cf0 -1.4 seems even more misleading, }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 because it suggests that}{\f2\cf0  men tend to have slightly lower systolic blood pressure than women, even though the truth }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 about this hypothetical population }{\f2\cf0 is, men tend to have higher systolic blood pressure than women. These two }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 highest and lowest estimates }{\f2\cf0 may be outliers, but more than 10% of B1s, were lower than 1.0 or greater than 7.0, quite different from the true gender difference of 4.0.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 9}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 These two graphs are from Simulation 2. They are the same types of graphs}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  as those in the previous slide}{\f2\cf0 , but in this simulation, there is no average difference in systolic blood pressure, between men and women, in th}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 is}{\f2\cf0  hypothetical population. Nevertheless, the value of B1 ranged from -4.1 to 5.5, whereas the true value }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 is}{\f2\cf0  zero. }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 M}{\f2\cf0 ore than 22 }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 of}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  t}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 h}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 e }{\f2\cf0 b1 values}{\f2\cf0 , }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 which is }{\f2\cf0 more than}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  }{\f2\cf0 10%}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  of }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 200}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  b1 values}{\f2\cf0 , were less than -3 or greater than 3. }\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 Values of A, B1}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\f2\cf0  and B2 in Simulations 1 and 2 are shown in the Excel file labeled [simulations dot stat inf], which is included in the materials of this session. }\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 Note that in actual research projects, we never get these kinds of graphs. Our data set and our regression analysis correspond}{\f2\cf0  to }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 just }{\f2\cf0 one of those vertical bars}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  in the left panel}{\f2\cf0 . If we are lucky, our result }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 will be}{\f2\cf0  like a bar around the middle}{\f2\cf0 . If we are not lucky, our result may be like a bar near the right or left end of the graph, }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 so}{\f2\cf0  quite different from the true value. }\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 For small studies, the sample size of 200 is not unusually small. So we should carefully assess the extent to which our results could be affected by sampling variations.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par}