{\rtf1\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}{\f1 Times New Roman;}{\f2 Arial;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0 ;\red0\green0\blue255 ;}{\*\defchp \f1}{\*\listoverridetable}{\stylesheet {\ql\f1 Normal;}{\*\cs1\f1 Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs2\sbasedon1\f1 Line Number;}{\*\cs3\ul\f1\cf1 Hyperlink;}{\*\ts4\tsrowd\f1\ql\trautofit1\tscellpaddfl3\tscellpaddl108\tscellpaddfr3\tscellpaddr108\tsvertalt\cltxlrtb Normal Table;}{\*\ts5\tsrowd\sbasedon4\f1\ql\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10\trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10\trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10\trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10\trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10\trautofit1\tscellpaddfl3\tscellpaddl108\tscellpaddfr3\tscellpaddr108\tsvertalt\cltxlrtb Table Simple 1;}}\nouicompat\splytwnine\htmautsp\sectd\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 1}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 this is part four of the lecture on statistical inference. In the last few sections, we studied P values and confidence intervals for coefficients of linear regression models. But, there are a few other types of statistical testing for linear regression.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 2}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 So far}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\f2\cf0  we have been studying statistical test for each of regression coefficients. But there is a statistical test for two or more regression coefficients together. Let's look at model two.  This regression model has three independent variables X1}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\f2\cf0  X2}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\f2\cf0  and X3, so there are three regression coefficients, beta-1, beta-2, and beta three. As we have learned, we can set up a n}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ull}{\f2\cf0  hypothesis for each of these three betas:  beta-1 = 0, beta 2 = 0, and beta 3 =0}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 , which will lead to three }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 different }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 p-values.}{\f2\cf0  But, we can set up an null hypothesis about two}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  or more}{\f2\cf0  betas together, for example, both beta-2 and beta three are zero.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 Why do we want to set up this kind of null hypothesis? Actually this approach is }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 quite }{\f2\cf0 useful, particularly when a poly-tomous categorical variable is included in the regression model as a set of binary variables. Suppose Y is some dependent variable, X1 is age, and X2 and X3 are binary variables for education categories}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 . For example, }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 X}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 -}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 2 may be for }{\f2\cf0 those who have not graduated from high school, and }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 X}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 -}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 3 may be for }{\f2\cf0 those who have graduated from high school, but not college. We }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 can}{\f2\cf0  start with a simple linear regression analysis of Y on age, like model 1 in this slide. Then, we may want to add education to this analysis, like model 2. In such a case, we may want to make sure that it is worth incluing education to this model. So we may want to test a null hypothesis that implies education makes no difference to the dependent variable, controlling for age.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 3}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 let's look at this example of multiple linear regression of fasting blood glucose level on some demographic variables including race-ethnicity. T}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 wo slightly different regression models were set up}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 .}{\f2\cf0  }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 L}{\f2\cf0 et's call them model one and model two. The difference is, in model one, non-Hispanic black was chosen as }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 the}{\f2\cf0  reference category of race-ethnicity, }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 but}{\f2\cf0  in model two, non-Hispanic whi}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 te}{\f2\cf0  was chosen. This table shows regression coefficients and p values for race ethnicity categories}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 from the two analyses}{\f2\cf0 . In the results of model one analysis, race ethnicity may not }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 appear}{\f2\cf0  to be a very important independent variable, because }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 the p-values are 0.170, 0.183, and 0.639, so }{\f2\cf0 none of the P values is very small. But, in the results of model two analysis,}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  race ethnicity }{\f2\cf0 looks more important}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  than in }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 the results }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 of }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 model one }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 analysis}{\f2\cf0 , because}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 , now}{\f2\cf0  the p value for Hispanic is 0.006, which is very low.  }\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 Why is there such a difference between the two sets of results? It is because the largest racial ethnic difference in fasting blood glucose level exists between Hispanic and non-Hispanic white. But, in the model one results, there is no P value for the difference between Hispanic and non-Hispanic white, because neither of them was the reference category. So results of the regular statistical test for poly-tomous categorical variable could look different, depending on the choice of the reference category.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 This }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 problem can be solved by set}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ting up a null hypothesis in}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 volving all of the binary variables for r}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 a}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ce-ethnicity categories together.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 4}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 T}{\f2\cf0 he joint statistical test for multiple variables is useful for assessing the overall importance of a poly-tomous variable in regression analysis. In this case, the null hypothesis is, betas for all of the categories of the poly-tomous variable, except the reference category, are  zero, which implies that the poly-tomous variable makes no difference in the dependent variable. So the rejection of the null hypothesis means that the poly-tomous variable makes }{\f2\cf0 some}{\f2\cf0  difference in the dependent variable. }\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 A sass statement for such a statistical test is shown here as an example. NH-black, Hispanic, and others are names of three binary variables of race ethnicity}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 . }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  And }{\f2\cf0  [= 0] }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 at the end, }{\f2\cf0 means all of their coefficients are zero. But what about the reference category, NH white? }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 Note that}{\f2\cf0  selecting a category as the reference category means}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  that}{\f2\cf0  its beta is fixed to be zero. Therefore, the sass statement that [NH black = Hispanic = Others = 0] means that beta's for all of the four categories are zero, }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 so}{\f2\cf0  there is no difference among the four}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  group}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 s}{\f2\cf0 .}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 In this case, the p value for the null hypothesis was 0.0419, so the null hypothesis can be rejected at the 0.05 level}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 , implying }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 that }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 race-ethnicity can make a difference in }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 the fasting }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 b}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 lood glucose level, controling for age}{\f2\cf0 .  }\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 Note that this p-value remains unchanged, regardless of the choice of the reference category.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 5}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 For this test, }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 a}{\f2\cf0  }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 quantity}{\f2\cf0 , denoted as uppercase F, is computed }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 as a test statistic }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 using}{\f2\cf0  this formula. This test statistic asymptotically follows a probability distribution called the F distribution, which is used for computing the P value}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  for the joint null hypothesis}{\f2\cf0 .}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 6 }\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 there is another type of statistical test for linear regression. In this test, the null hypothesis includes regression coefficients of all independent variables in the regression model. The null hypothesis is that all betas, i.e., all of the regression coefficients in the model, are zero.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 7}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 to my knowledge, results of this }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 "global" }{\f2\cf0 statistical test a}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 re}{\f2\cf0  shown in the output of any computer program of linear regression. In sass, the table labeled [analysis of variance] in the linear regression output shows the results. In this example, P value for the global null hypothesis is smaller than 0.0001. P value from this }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 kind of }{\f2\cf0 statistical test is usually very small, because the null hypothesis implies that none of the independent variables in the model makes any difference in the dependent variable}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 , which is }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 unlikely in actual research projects.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 8}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 in this test, the test statistic }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 [F] }{\f2\cf0 is computed as shown here, and under the same set of assumption used for the statistical test of each regression coefficient, the test statistic asymptotically follows the F  distribution.}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 9 }\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 mathematics of the F distribution is summarized in this slide}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 ,}{\f2\cf0  for those who are interested}{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0  in the mathematical }{\lang1033\langfe1033\f2\cf0 basis}{\f2\cf0 .}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 10}\f2\cf0\par\pard\plain\ql{\f2\cf0 and this is an example of the shape of F distribution.}\f2\cf0\par}